---
title: 2015's Examination
---

#### 2015

##### Section I&emsp;Use of English

**T.11**: Why this similarity exists in smell genes is difficult to explain, for now. Perhaps, as the team suggests, it draws us to similar environments but these is more ____ it.

| A. about | B. to | C. from | D. like |
| -------- | :---: | ------- | ------- |

##### Section II&emsp;Reading Comprehension

###### Part A

*Text 1*:

> **Para.3**&emsp;It is this apparent transcendence of politics that explains monarchs' continuing popularity as heads of state. And so, the Middle East excepted, Europe is the most monarch-infested region in the world, with 10 kingdoms (not counting Vatican City and Andorra). But unlike their absolutist counterparts in the Gulf and Asia, most royal families have survived because they allow voters to avoid the difficult search for a non-controversial but respected public figure.
> **Para.5**&emsp;The most successful monarchies strive to abandon or hide their old aristocratic ways. Princes and princesses have day-jobs and ride bicycles, not horses (or helicopters). Even so, these are wealthy families who party with the international 1%, and media intrusiveness makes it increasingly difficult to maintain the right image.
> **Para.6**&emsp;While Europe’s monarchies will no doubt be smart enough to survive for some time to come, it is the British royals who have most to fear from the Spanish example.

**T.22**: Monarchs are kept as heads of state in Europe mostly

| A. owing to their undoubted and respectable status. |
| :--------------------------------------------------------- |
| **B. to achieve a balance between tradition and reality.** |
| **C. to give voters more public figures to look up to.**   |
| **D. due to their everlasting political embodiment.**      |

**T.24**: The British royals "have most to fear" because Charles

| A. takes a tough line on political issues.         |
| :------------------------------------------------- |
| **B. fails to change his lifestyle as advised.**   |
| **C. takes republicans as his potential allies.**  |
| **D. fails to adapt himself to his future role.** |

###### Part B

> **Para.2**&emsp;The ways of reading indicated here are without doubt kinds of comprehension. But they show comprehension to consist not just of passive assimilation but of active engagement in inference and problem-solving. You infer information you feel the writer has invited you to grasp by presenting you with specific evidence and clue. **(T.42)**____
> **Para.3**&emsp;Conceived in this way, comprehension will not follow exactly the same track for each reader. What is in question is not the retrieval of an absolute, fixed, or "true" meaning that can be read off and checked for accuracy, or some timeless relation of the text to the world. **(T.43)**____
> **Para.4**&emsp;Such background material inevitably reflects who we are. **(T.44)**____ This doesn't, however, make interpretation merely relative or even pointless. Precisely because readers from different historical periods, places and social experiences produce different but overlapping readings of the same words on the page—including for texts that engage with fundamental human concerns—debates about texts can play an important role in social discussion of beliefs and values.
> **Para.5**&emsp;How we read a given text also depends to some extent on our particular interest in reading it. **(T.45)**____ Such dimensions of read suggest—as others introduced later in the book will also do—that we bring an implicit (often unacknowledged) agenda to any act of reading. It doesn’t then necessarily follow that one kind of reading is fuller, more advanced or more worthwhile than another. Ideally, different kinds of reading inform each other, and act as useful reference points for and counterbalances to one another. Together, they make up the reading component of your overall literacy or relationship to your surrounding textual environment.

| A. Are we studying that text and trying to respond in a way that fulfils the requirement of a given course? Reading it simply for pleasure? Skimming it for information? Ways of reading on a train or in bed are likely to differ considerably from reading in a seminar room.      |
| :-- |
| **B. Factors such as the place and period in which we are reading, our gender ethnicity, age and social class will encourage us towards certain interpretation but at the same time obscure or even close off others.**     |
| **D. In effect, you try to reconstruct the likely meanings or effects that any given sentence, image or reference might have had: These might be the ones the author intended.** |
| **E. You make further inferences, for instance, about how the test may be significant to you, or about its validity—inferences that form the basis of a personal response for which the author will inevitably be far less responsible.**   |
| **F. In plays，novels and narrative poems, characters speak as constructs created by the author, not necessarily as mouthpieces for the author’s own thoughts.** |
| **G. Rather, we ascribe meanings to test on the basis of interaction between what we might call textual and contextual material: between kinds of organization or patterning we perceive in a text’s formal structures (so especially its language structures) and various kinds of background, social knowledge, belief and attitude that we bring to the text.**    |
